harmony is about injecting melody with
emotion
so that ultimately you leave home and
you return home and you've learned
something along the way yeah so a nice
place to start is with the idea of a
triad a triad is a three-part harmony
basically so
that's a triumph you know so this child
is called c major right so have you ever
heard this idea of like major chords and
minor chords yeah yeah yeah so this is c
major yeah
and then
this is c c minor so the feelings are
different right yeah it feels like dark
and spooky yeah this one's darker and
how does this one make you feel then
happy right enjoyable yeah i like that
yeah so
in amazing grace
if you start with f you know if i go
there
where am i right now i don't know where
i am
and my job is to get back home but to
make it to to make this chord make sense
yeah so i might go
my job as a harmonizer is to find that
narrative and make it make sense that
was interesting because i didn't think
that that would work together right
because there were two completely
different sounds but then like it just
made it happen and it just was like pow
amazing