one nice emotional device when it comes
to harmony is just thinking about how to
arrive somewhere you know it can be so
sparse it can be so rich and it can be
really emotional so this idea of the
overtone and understand in the harmonic
series um how much do you know about
this
only until i started listening to
singing like barbershop quartet and and
as i was a violinist as well then i
finally understood the idea where the
overtone series came from that if a
bunch of singers were to nail a chord or
have it perfectly tuned uh the overtones
you would hear a tone that necessarily
wasn't being produced by one of those
the amazing thing about harmony is that
it it exists in nature so take the
harmonic series of the note f for
example okay you have the octave and
then the fifth then the fourth and then
the
but that's a little bit sharp with that
one and then the intervals get
increasingly small beneath that note you
have the undertone series which
essentially is like a reflection of
something in the same way that when a
tree grows in nature you have the
branches which go upwards and the roots
which go downwards so it's quite a nice
thing to think about
this being the key center the the floor
the ground
and then these two different directions
of ways in which it can express itself
and the differences in the sensations
with that lots of the time i think when
it comes to reharmonization or
harmonization people think that the
solution to the problems come when we
add more notes
i think that people forget that you can
work with the notes you already have by
just rearranging them just the simple
idea of inversion you know inversion of
the simple triad of f major
so i was lost
how home do i want to go here you know
is there another verse to come right
because i can do i can delay the
gratification of going home first of all
just by using inversions even before we
add notes to the chord one thing that i
was very joyful to discover is that
every single melody note works with
every single bass note
so you can demonstrate that yeah so this
is the note f yeah f major f minor
g flat major seven g flat diminished g
flat minor major seven g minor seven g
sus
g seven g seven sharp eleven
and then g seven with a flat thirteen
right a flat sauce a flat major seven a
flat major seven sharp five with the
sharp eleven
essentially what that demonstrates is
that every note and every bass note are
compatible so once we realize this it's
like that's great now what should we do
what should we what do we how what am i
supposed to do right and sometimes the
paralyzing thing when it comes to
arranging there are too many options two
things are possible so that's when it
becomes super super important to be
aware of what you want to try and say
emotionally you know but what about
negative harmony the dark side so
essentially the way i'd apply negative
harmony would be this idea of polarity
you know between the undertone series
and the overtone series or you know the
one side and the other side the perfect
in the playground the feeling of a minor
political cadence
resolving is so moving you know and it's
just it's a good alternative to
something like
it's funny you know you doing that makes
something in a major key sound like kind
of a wistful sad song right you know you
changed the feeling of what otherwise
would you know if you would tell a kid
this is a major song it should be happy
exactly yeah no for sure and you know f
major can be something you arrive in
from if you arrive in f major from d
flat then it's like the sun's come out
right but if you arrive in f major from
a major
then it's like the sun's gone in so
there's a lot about context i think once
you have a language it's about using it
and applying it in those emotional ways
i think that's what makes the difference