it's simple it's ver it's like a video
game except it feels like you're in the
video game that's actually a really good
description the idea is that if you've
got a system here that can make you see
whatever we want you to see then we can
make you believe that you're anywhere
else like on top of a mountain or in a
dungeon or under the ocean
or in minecraft yeah or in minecraft
when you look at a tv on the wall there
you're showing like a picture of a
mountain or something
how can you tell that it's not just a
window and there's something else behind
it because it always doesn't look quite
right if you have a static picture of
a person on a screen and you move around
like this it's not really changing and
it's interesting those are things that
we have to figure out the ways around it
to fool you in virtual reality we need
to figure out when you look at something
in reality how can you tell whether it's
real or not have you been to a 3d movie
where you put on the little glasses
um yeah
so what they do the trick for that is if
you ever at a theater and you take up
the glasses and you look at it you'll
see it's blurry where there's actually
two pictures that they're showing at the
same time and what those little glasses
do is
they let one eye see one picture and the
other eye see a different picture so
then your eyes can say oh it looks like
i'm seeing right through the screen or
something is floating out in front of it
in the vr headsets what we do is there's
actually either two screens or one
screen split in half so that it draws a
different picture completely different
picture for each eye and we make sure
that each eye can only see the picture
it intended to and that's what can make
things feel like they've got this real
depth to them that it's something that
you could reach out and touch and it
doesn't feel like a flat tv screen