just barely tell
and you see that even in like if you
hold out your hand and you focus on your
hand
then your foot would be blurry because
there's that difference there and you
can change between that like you can
then focus on your foot and your hand
gets blurry because your eyes can see
different amounts of detail in different
places so we're hoping in the future
that hardware can be like that where we
can make a display that puts lots of
detail right where you're looking and
every time you look someplace else it
moves the detail over to there so we
don't need to render a hundred times as
much as we've got right now figuring out
where you're looking is a pretty hard
problem what we
try to go about this is by taking a
camera and looking at people's eyes and
then try to figure out is the eye
looking over here or up here we're
working hard on stuff like this right
now
so we hopefully can have a virtual
reality that's as detailed and realistic
feeling as the reality that we've
actually got around us but it's going to
be a long time before we get to i you
know where we can really fool people