 latency is is it's it's basically
the time delay between um
the rendering at different points so
it's basically a delay it happens in all
parts of the system monitors can be a
big one like
you know consumer televisions can often
have 50 milliseconds or more of latency
just in the tv part and then you've got
the processing in the computer and all
of these add up to the total latency
the latency is in my opinion the most
important part of vr because if you have
that offset your body is no longer
immersed and you get you gain that
motion sickness which can pull a lot of
people out of the experience games that
feel really good they've got that sense
of it happens instantly when you're you
know when you're doing something it
really is a testament to this kind of
technology and
how it's developing and how over time
it's going to just be you're going to be
able to pack more
pixel density in those displays and it's
going to get a lot more immersive like
30 years ago you had desktop pcs which
were you spent whatever on that but
there was always this idea well you can
spend a million dollars and buy a super
computer and it's going to be a lot
faster and that's not really true today
for scalar processing when you just do
one thing after another
a high-end overclocked cooled gaming pc
is about the fastest thing in the world
it is within a very small delta yeah for
some things you'll get some power you
know ibm power system that might be a
little bit faster but not a whole lot so
if i'm looking at this and saying we
need to be five times faster you know
what do you do you can't just say make
each thing faster
as a developer you're making a trade-off
i can put my effort into making this
more efficient or making it more fun and
more fun usually wins out for very good
reasons so there's some good judgment
and trickery that goes into the design
of things because you can always design
a game that will just not work well
i am i mean in the old days games had to
be so precisely designed nowadays you've
got a ton more freedom
you really can it's just the hardware
because
old games are running off of 8-bit and
that's all the data you can have yeah
any crazy idea you do now you could
probably make a pretty good video game
out which is a wonderful wonderful thing
yeah a lot of freedom but vr makes you
have to give up a little bit of that
freedom you have to
not do so many crazy things so that you
can wind up having it be as responsive
and high quality as it needs to be