you know an interesting topic is what
are the limits to what we can do with
virtual reality where i'm pretty pleased
with what we have today what we can show
people and say virtual reality it's cool
people get an amazing response from it
but we're still clearly a very very long
ways from reality that kind of notes
back to realism in our history and how
realism was response to romanticism and
realism was meant to capture the mundane
everyday lives of you know individuals
and not idealize any of their activities
in any way and i think that that's
really important for virtual reality i
think it's kind of like a rite of
passage for any kind of our technology
to go through mostly in vr we talk about
the the display in optics the visual
side of things but we should at least
tick off the other senses and
haptics is an interesting thing about
virtual reality really doesn't have that
aspect of touching things you can move
your hands around you could do
everything but it's a disconnected
experience because you know you don't
have you know the actual solidity there
and i am pessimistic about uh progress
in haptics technology about almost all
other areas i'm an optimist i'm excited
about what's coming up but i don't have
any brilliant vision about how we're
going to revolutionize haptics and make
it feel like we're touching the things
in the virtual world so i've you know
tried the demos where there's that brla
there's one that has waves like audio
waves i believe that come up and then
you can put your hands through that and
feel the waves whenever you're supposed
to be feeling bubbles or any kind of
force field or something and those are
pretty interesting i've seen some pretty
interesting things that you could do
with audios you can cut down a lot of
the storage i guess in the power that
you would need in order to power a huge
scene you can just you know mimic the
sounds of those scenes actually being
there and then not actually build them
out for example
a professor at usc would have the sound
of a train drive-by without ever
actually rendering the sound and you'd
feel like you're deeply immersed in this
world without having to have such an
expensive scene built around you so i
think those are pretty you know
significant and that is one potential
quality improvement that's still on the
horizon is when we do spatialization we
use the the hrtf the head relative
transfer function to make it sound like
it's in different places but usually we
just use this one kind of generic here
as your average human hrtf function
and it's possible that of course if you
are right in the average then it's
perfect for you but there's always
people off to the extremes that it
doesn't do a very good job at and there
may be better ways to allow people to
sample their own perfect hrtf which can
improve the audio experiences a lot it
all comes down to all these trade-offs
you know with display and um with
resolution it's one of those things
where if people have one bad experience
they kind of outrule everything else
it's really
difficult to build trust again with
people um who haven't done vr before but
it's easy to break off that trust
whenever they do it but there was a huge
concern about that at oculus and the
term internally that went around was
poisoning the well they were very very
concerned i mean for a long time there
was a fight about whether gear vr should
even be done because the worry was that
if we let a product go out like gear vr
that didn't have those things that if
somebody saw it and it was bad it made
them sick
made their eyes hurt then they would be
like i'm never going to try vr again i
tried it that time and it was you know
it was terrible and there was legitimate
arguments about whether it was even a
good idea to do that
and it turned out that yes it's
obviously better to have all of those
things but you can still do something
that's valuable for the user without it
it's weird being at the beginning of a
medium like this right i'm very excited
to see uh how filmmakers tackle
creating content in those things
especially if they're already
experienced with traditional medium