mostly today i've been talking a lot
about what can we do what's possible
what we think might be possible in the
next couple years but really at the
professional level it's more the
question of wisdom of what should we be
doing that's one of the things we're
trying to figure out is from an artist
and story storytelling perspective kind
of what are the things that will make
this meaningfully different from what
we're used to like a television on our
wall and
we've been finding a lot of things that
aspects of virtual reality that very
much do that in my opinion things that
allow you to feel presence first and
foremost where you get lost and you have
to remind yourself this isn't actually
happening and things that ultimately
allow you to embody other characters
things where you can actually change
your own self-perception and play with
neuroplasticity and teach yourself
things that are
bizarre and unique as an engineer of
course i love quantifiable things i like
saying here's my 18 millisecond motion
to photon here's my angular resolution
and i'm improving i'm doing the color
space right but you can look at you know
not too far back where you say we have
blu-ray dvds at this amazing resolution
but more people want to watch youtube
videos at really bad early internet
video speeds where there are things that
if you deliver a value to people then
these objective quantities may not be
the most important thing and while i'm
certainly pushing as hard as we can on
lots of these things that make the
experience better in potentially every
way or maybe just for videos or the
different things i don't think that it's
necessary i've commented that i think
usually my favorite titles on mobile
they're fully synthetic are ones that
don't even try they just go and do like
light mapped flat shaded and i think
it's a lovely aesthetic i think that you
don't wind up fighting all of the
aliasing while you get some other titles
that we're gonna be high tech with our
you know our specular bump maps with
roughness and you've got aliasing
everywhere and you can't hold frame rate
and it's all problematic while some of
these that are clearly
you know very synthetic worlds where i
it's nothing but these cartoony flat
shaded things with lighting but they
look and they feel good and you can buy
that you're in that place and you want
to know what's around that monolith over
there
we did a project called life of us which
was exactly that mindset we were like
let's embrace low-poly aesthetic and
just simple vertex shading and we end up
you know realizing you can embody these
various creatures and transform yourself
and when you do that with co-presence of
another creature another human um it
makes for a totally magical journey and
you don't even think for a second you
actually dismiss the whole idea of photo
realism and embrace that reality for
what it is i think it actually helps put
you at ease a little bit the end goal of
reality of course in computer graphics
people have chased photo realistic for
you know for a long time and basically
we've we've achieved it photo realism if
you're willing to throw enough
you know discreet path traced rays at
things you can generate photorealistic
views we understand the light really
well uh of course it still takes a half
hour per frame like it always has or
more to render the different things so
it's an understood problem and given
infinite computing power i'm
we could be doing that in virtual
reality however a point that i've made
to to people in recent years is that we
are running out of moore's law i am i
mean maybe we'll see some wonderful
breakthrough and you know quantum
structures or whatever or bandwidth
but yeah but if we just wind wind up
following the path that we're on we're
gonna get double and quadruple but we're
not gonna get 50 times more powerful
than we are right now we will run into
atomic limits on our fabrication so
given that i'm trying to tell people
that
start buying back into optimization
start buying back into thinking a little
bit more creatively because you can't
just wait it's not going to get to that
point where it really is fixed to to
those highest degrees just by waiting
for computing to advance
if we want this to be something used by
a billion people then we need it to be
lighter cheaper more comfortable and
there's constantly novel ux innovations
like on google earth the way that they
did the kind of
elimination of your periphery as you
zoom in and move and also giving you the
user action to decide where you're going
and looking there's a constantly seeing
people coming up with ways to kind of
break from the paradigms of actual
reality and then introduce you know
mechanisms that work very well you know
there's tons of opportunities for the
synthetic case where you want to be able
to have your synthetic fantasy world
where everybody is a creature that's
created by the by the computer and
simulated reasonably yeah but of course
we've got them
you know we still don't do people well
simulated that's a hard problem we've
been beating our heads against it for a
long time i do think we're making
progress and
i wouldn't bet on that being solved in
10 years but maybe 20 years because it
is going to take a lot of ai it's going
to take a lot of machine learning where
it's not going to be a matter of us
dissecting all the micro expressions
that people do it's going to be let's
take every youtube video ever made and
run it through some enormous learner
that's going to figure out how to make
people look realistic yeah absolutely
there are these crucial thresholds where
you pass you know technological hurdle
and all of a sudden that unlocks a whole
world of creative potential but i think
to your point very much we need to solve
the actual human and social challenges
um and and turn those into opportunities
to figure out how this technology fits
into our lives i'm still a believer the
magic's out there we haven't found it
yet so somebody's going to
you know happen upon the formula i feel
like i i've felt little pockets of me
yeah
oh you can imagine the utility behind
this for creating a world or you can
imagine the
power of a story that would be told you
in this context and a lot of it i think
is just picking those putting them
together in a meaningful way and then
crafting something that's that's really
bigger and intentional but i've now been
joining with real people in virtual
reality and you i think we also have
different levels of connection like the
audio side is the leaps and bounds above
in terms of the nuance of personality
and humanity so when i hear people
laughing and joking and and
you know really enjoying something soon
we'll get into that we're in macro
gesture land where i can wave and say
you know thumbs up but when we get into
micro gestures and actually getting a
sense of facial reactions and other
things i think then we'll have a really
incredibly rewarding time spending
spending time with each other so vr
right now is pretty amazing when you
look at it it's things that you haven't
seen but we are just getting started the
next five years both technologically and
creatively are going to really take this
medium some place that you've never
imagined