maybe a wiring diagram is not sufficient
to understand the brain and it would be
crazy to think that that would be
sufficient actually if you limit the
connectom to be just the wiring diagram
without you know more information about
uh myelination or glial cells correct
all types of environmental features that
surround you know the neurons and axons
then
then you have an incomplete picture
right no doubt sometimes when people get
um
they worry about connectomics i think
what they're actually worrying about is
that it's the end of the way that we
used to do neuroscience what do you
think about memory do you think that
there's um
ways of resolving what the substrate of
human memory is you know is it just ltp
and lcd i'm not sure
if you had a connectome of a human brain
of an adult human i would be able to
read out memories from that
you don't think it's just the synaptic
weights like an artificial neural
network it's trained to do particularly
it could absolutely be but without
knowing
what the weights were before the memory
was made what if you
had a violinist learn a piece of bach
music yes could you find those notes
somewhere in their brain yes they didn't
know before yes um
you know
i'm a musician and
i don't think it's possible i think that
there are too many
you know
so much of it is associative to what you
already know uh-huh
and as a musician how much of it do you
think is in your hands versus in your
brains uh meaning like you do have
connections in your
muscles from the nerves that are from
your spinal cord uh
what if some of the learning is there
are you still doing em or yeah i mean we
do a lot of x-ray in addition to em
and this is actually i'm not saying it's
the only problem but it's the only
problem that needs to be solved right
away is that the data analysis right in
fact i think we calculated that there
aren't enough humans
ever to map a mouse brain uh uh where
will you collect every connection and uh
etc
so the problem is to get algorithms to
to trace to recognize things in brains
the way humans uh uh recognize things in
brains or map things trace things in
brains it's going to cost a lot of money
uh to imagine setting the gold standard
for the wiring diagram even once and
that's what i'm those are the kinds of
ethical concerns that i'm worried about
one of the things that we're not doing
well as a field is sort of educating and
telling people beyond our field the
benefits of what we can achieve and i'm
impressed that when you talk to people
about something that seems kind of crazy
and outlandish and perhaps they hadn't
been talking about before it doesn't
take them long to come to a kind of
considered opinion especially children i
think it's kind of amazing
i mean i do hope that more people talk
about brains and what we use brains for
and the ways that we shouldn't use our
brains so i think this field has the
opportunity to make that more real
