so what do you think that thing is
is it some sort of conjecture circuit
that is a really good guess there's
parts of that that are definitely about
conducting this is the inside of a
quantum computer
oh wow
yeah this whole infrastructure is all
about creating levels that get
progressively colder as you go from top
to bottom down to the quantum chip which
is how we actually control the state of
the cupids oh wow so when you say cold
or you mean like physically colder yeah
like physically colder so room
temperature is 300 kelvin as you get
down all the way to the bottom of the
fridge it's at 10 milli kelvin oh wow
yeah amanda what do you study so i'm
studying computer science currently a
sophomore and the track that i'm in is
the intelligent systems track machine
learning artificial intelligence you
ever heard of quantum computing from my
understanding with a quantum computer
rather than using transistors is using
spins you can have superposition of
spins so different states
more combinations means more memory so
that's pretty good so you mentioned
superposition but you can also use other
quantum properties like entanglement
have you heard of entanglement i have
not okay so it's this idea that you have
two objects and when you entangle them
together they become connected
and then they're sort of permanently
connected to each other and they behave
in ways that are sort of a system now so
superposition is one quantum property
that we use entanglement is another
quantum property and a third is
interference how much you know about
interference
um not much okay so how do
noise-canceling headphones work um they
read like wave like ambient wavelengths
and then produce like the opposite one
to cancel out they create interference
so you can have constructive
interference and you can have
destructive interference we have
constructive interference you have
amplitudes wave amplitudes that add
until the signal gets larger and if you
have destructive interference the
amplitudes cancel by using a property
like
interference we can control quantum
states and amplify the kinds of signals
that are towards the right answer and
then cancel the types of signals that
are leading to the wrong answer so given
that you know that we're trying to use
superposition entanglement and
interference for computation how do you
think we build these computers
i have no idea so step one is you need
to be able to have an object or physical
device we call it a qubit or quantum bit
that can actually handle those things
can actually be put into superpositions
of states you know two cubit states that
you can physically entangle with each
other that's not really trivial right
and things in our classical world you
can't really entangle things in our
classical world so easily we need to use
devices where they can they can support
a quantum state and we can manipulate
that quantum state atoms ions and in our
case superconducting qubits we make
qubits out of superconducting materials
but as like a programmer how would
quantum computing affect a different way
of writing a program it's a perfect
question i mean it's very early for
quantum computing but we're building
assembly languages we're building layers
of abstraction that are going to get you
to a point as a programmer where you can
interchangeably be programming something
the way that you already do
and then make calls to a quantum
computer so that you can bring it in
when it makes sense we're not
envisioning quantum computers completely
replacing classical computers anytime
soon we think that quantum computing is
going to be used to accelerate the kinds
of things that are really hard for for
classical machines so what exactly are
some of those problems
simulating nature is something that's
really hard because if you take
something like you know modeling atomic
bonding and electronic orbital overlap
instead of now writing out a giant
summation over many terms you try and
actually mimic the system you're trying
to simulate directly on a quantum
computer which we can do for chemistry
and uh we're looking at ways of doing
that for other types of things there's a
lot of exciting research right now on
machine learning trying to use quantum
systems to accelerate machine learning
problems so would it be like in five
years or ten years that i would be able
to have like one of these sitting in my
laptop just in my dorm i don't think
you're going to have one in your dorm
room anytime soon but you'll have access
to one there's three free quantum
computers that are all sitting in this
lab here that anyone in the world can
access through the cloud okay so quantum
computing creates new possibilities and
new ways to approach problems that
classical computers have difficulty
doing 