it's in
the computer science department but it
mixes computer science with math and
probability and statistics so have you
come upon sort of any limits to machine
learning certainly depending on the
complexity of your model uh then
computational speed is one thing i have
colleagues here that tell me it can take
up to weeks to train certain neural
networks right sure yeah and actually
machine learning is one research
direction where we're really hoping that
we're going to find um key parts of the
machine learning computation that can be
sped up using quantum computing yeah
it's exciting so in a classical computer
you know you have all sorts of logical
gates that perform operations and they
change an input to some sort of output
but
i guess it's not immediately obvious how
you do that with quantum computers if
you think about even just classical
information like bits right at the end
of the day when you store a bit in your
hard drive there's a
magnetic domain and you have a magnetic
polarization right sure you can change
the magnetization to be pointing up or
pointing down right quantum systems
we're still manipulating
a device and changing the quantum state
of that of that device you can imagine
if it's a spin that you could have spin
up and spin down but you can also
if you isolate it enough you can have a
superposition of up and down sure so
what we do when we try to solve problems
with a quantum computer is we encode
parts of the problem we're trying to
solve into a complex quantum state and
then we manipulate that state to drive
it towards what will eventually
represent the solution so how do we
actually uh encode it to start with yeah
that's a really good question this
actually is a model of the inside of one
of our quantum computers okay so you
need a chip with qubits each qubit is a
carrier of quantum information and the
way we control the state of that qubit
is using microwave pulses you send them
all the way down these cables and we've
calibrated these microwave pulses so
that we know exactly this kind of pulse
what this frequency and this duration
will put the cupid into superposition or
we'll flip the state of the qubit from
zero to one or if we apply a microwave
pulse between two qubits we can entangle
them how do we measure yes exactly also
through microwave signals okay the key
is to come up with algorithms where the
result is deterministic interesting so
what do those algorithms look like
there's sort of two main classes of
quantum algorithms there's algorithms
which were developed for decades right
things like shore's algorithm which is
for factoring grover's algorithm for
unstructured search and these algorithms
were designed assuming that you had a
perfect fault tolerant quantum computer
which is many decades away so we're
currently in a phase where we're
exploring what can we do with these
near-term quantum computers and the
answer is going to be well we need
different kinds of algorithms to really
even explore that question yeah
certainly having a search algorithm is
very useful um factoring those are
definitely useful things that i would
imagine could be done a lot faster on a
quantum computer yeah they also
unfortunately require fault tolerance
right now the algorithms that we know of
today to do those things um on a quantum
computer require you to have millions of
error-corrected qubits today we're at
like 50.
it's actually amazing that we're at 50.
there's things that we know or we have
strong reason to believe um are going to
be faster to do on a quantum computer
and then there's things that we'll
discover just by virtue of having one
sure how could someone like me who's a
grad student get involved in this or
what kinds of challenges are you facing
that someone like me could help out with
i'm glad you're interested
i think the place where lots of people
can get involved right now is by going
and trying it out and thinking about
what they could do with it there's a lot
of opportunity to find these near-term
applications that are only going to be
found by trying things out