i'm a theoretical physicist i started
out in condensed matter theory
theory that studies
superconductors and magnets and i had to
learn
a new field of quantum optics and apply
those ideas one of the nice things about
being a theorist is you get to keep
learning new things so steve tell me
about your research and the work you've
been doing in quantum computing my main
focus right now is quantum error
correction and trying to understand this
concept of fault tolerance which
everybody thinks they know it when they
see it but nobody in the quantum case
can precisely
define it it's something that we've
already figured out for classical
computing like something that amazes me
is all the parallels between what we're
going through now for quantum computing
and what we went through for classical
computing i was asking a computer
scientist recently where to read about
fault tolerance in classical computing
he said oh they don't teach that in
computer science classes anymore because
the hardware has become so reliable in a
quantum system when you look at it or
make measurements it it can change in a
way that's beyond your control we have
the following task build a nearly
perfect computer out of a whole bunch of
imperfect parts
common myth
how many qubits do you have that's the
only thing that matters like just add
more qubits what's the big deal pattern
them on your chip the great power of a
quantum computer is also its achilles
heel that it's very very sensitive to
perturbations and noise and
environmental effects you're just
multiplying your problems if all you're
doing is adding uh exactly so i think
something that frustrates a lot of
people about quantum computing is the
concept of decoherence right you can
only keep your information quantum for
so long right and that limits how many
operations you can do in a row before
you lose your information that's
the challenge i would say as much
progress as we've made it's a
frustration to still be facing it let's
talk about some of the things we think
need to happen between now and fully
fault tolerant quantum computers to get
us to that reality i mean there's so
many things that need to happen in my
mind one of the things we need to do is
build all these different layers of
abstraction that make it easier for
programmers to come in and just enter at
the ground level you know yeah exactly
so i think there's going to be a kind of
co-evolution
of the hardware
and the software up here and the sort of
middleware and the whole stack another
common myth in the next five years
quantum computing will solve climate
change cancer
[Laughter]
right in the next five years there'll be
tremendous progress in the field but
people really have to understand that
we're either at the vacuum tube or
transistor stage we're trying to invent
the integrated circuit and scale up it's
still very very very early in the
development of the field one last myth i
think we should bust steve quantum
computers are on the verge of breaking
into your bank account and breaking
encryption and creative cryptography
there does exist an algorithm shores
algorithm which
has been proven mathematically
that if you had a large enough quantum
computer
you could
find the prime factors of large numbers
the basis of the rsa encryption it's the
most commonly used thing
on the internet first we're far away
from
being able to have a quantum computer
big enough to execute schwarz algorithm
on that scale second
there are plenty of other encryption
schemes that don't use factoring and i
don't think anybody has to be concerned
at the moment and in the end quantum
mechanics goes to the side of privacy
enhancement if you have a quantum
communication channel you can
encode information and send it through
there and
it's
provably secure based on
the laws of physics you know now that
everybody around the world can access a
quantum computer through the cloud
people are doing all kinds of cool
things they're building games we've seen
the emergence of quantum gains right
what do you think people want to do with
them i have no idea what people are
going to
end up using them for i mean if you had
gone back
30 years and handed somebody an iphone
they would have called you a wizard so
things are going to happen that we just
can't foresee
so i hope you enjoyed that foray into
the field of quantum computing i know
i've personally enjoyed getting to see
quantum computing through other people's
eyes coming at it from all these
different levels this is such an
exciting time in the history of quantum
computing only in the last couple years
have real quantum computers become
available to everyone around the world
this is the beginning of a many decade
adventure where we'll discover so many
things about quantum computing and what
it will do we don't even know all the
amazing things it's going to do and to
me that's the most exciting part