crispr is a way to edit
the genome do you know what a genome is
yeah it's the dna dna is kind of
the language that the genome is written
and the genome itself is an instruction
manual it describes how to make you how
tall you should be what color hair you
have or what color eyes you have so what
crispr is and an easy way to think about
it it's like a molecular pair of
scissors
that can go through that long long
genome and find specific places make
small cuts and edit it what do you think
about being able to edit genomes it's
actually kind of cool because then you
could change can't you technically
change things about a person if you edit
the dna sure so how do we determine
what's what's the right uses then i
don't think it should be used for almost
cosmetology reasons like for people just
be like oh i want to be five foot six
instead of five foot four or like
reasons that aren't necessarily the most
informed i just think if it could
genuinely help someone like if someone
had cancer and there was a way to fix it
or like slow down the growth so a lot of
the work that we do in my lab is about
being engineers of dna we try and look
to see what mutations cause diseases and
to see if when we change those mutations
if we can take a sick cell or organism
and make it healthy again couldn't you
technically because the p53 when it's
defected does that's what causes cancers
p53 is the most common mutation in
cancer that's that's right yeah that's a
great idea actually to use crispr to
target tumor cells and restore p53 to
fix that that mutation so to make that
cut with these scissors and fix it