there have been uh previous gene editing
tools but christopher is more
revolutionary in that it's more precise
and a little bit more affordable do you
know how crispr works so it works where
you have this crisper what this cast 9
complex um protein calcium protein cas9
protein complex along with
something called a guide rna that's
right that's right and that rna will
basically tell this protein where to go
and what gene to sort of cut out
right and this is what makes the crispr
system very programmable is that the
little piece of guide rna is easy to
make right we can program crispr to go
to many different places in the genome
quite easily
but i've heard they're like close to
almost curing muscular dystrophy with it
but there's a lot of i guess ethical
issues that come up with it too one of
the really nice things actually about
crispr is that we can use it in human
cells you know if you ask most people
should you use it to cure cancer most
people would say yeah those those are
good good uses but there are other areas
that are a little bit more problematic
like editing the germline which means
something that
could be passed on ethics-wise a lot of
people will have that natural reaction
of fear against something new because it
has a lot of potential and we just don't
know where it can take us yet it was
sort of similar to like when people
started doing in vitro fertilization
test two babies
that was the kind of scare term exactly
exactly but
now we see it's perfectly fine as long
you know it's regulated and
plenty of people i know some people who
came up from that