so there's been a lot of talk about
using crispr for gene editing in humans
and that that can be a controversial
thing i think very naturally there's
many aspects of ethics that need to be
looked at
firstly if we're talking about using
crispr are we using it in somatic cells
such as t cells or are we using it in
embryos or germ stem cells and the issue
with that is now you're modifying the
genome at a germline level any
unintended consequences could go forward
many generations you're saying with
germline sure there's unintended
consequences but there's also lack of
consent if you are not around you can't
consent exactly so these future
generations or products of crispr they
can't consent
another i think ethical component is if
crispr does make it to market who will
have access to it is that going to be
cost prohibitive will only a certain
select few be able to use it as many new
cancer drugs are today right right will
that be how it is yeah would people
start using it for non-therapeutic
reasons and i think this then can get
into a whole slippery slope so i think a
lot of people are concerned maybe that
crispr will be used in kind of frivolous
ways maybe just to choose somebody's eye
color or or how tall they are what color
hair they have
and i think what a lot of people don't
realize maybe is that the state of
genetics is not
quite there it's nice to think that i
can go in and choose exactly what eye
color i want but fundamentally science
doesn't exactly know all of that yet we
don't know every single gene related to
eye color nor the regulatory mechanisms
nor the epigenetics this is a right so
so we can use crispr now to try and
understand better how do our genes
relate to these these different features
these different phenotypes that that we
have there's a lot of work left to do
before we even know what i think what
are the knobs and dials what are the
controls right that you know affect eye
color or how tall you are so i think
this question right now even though it's
important to discuss
i kind of feel like it's more
theoretical right now
yeah or is it really even a point
necessary for conversation because
people are going out every single day
and getting plastic surgery to change
how they look how is this any different
and in the same slant people are using
in vitro fertilization right so this is
manipulating genomes you're choosing
which embryos to implant so we're almost
doing little aspects of what crispr has
the potential to do