so matt what are you doing right now in
the lab and how are you using gene
editing in your own work right now one
of the questions i've been very much
interested in is trying to understand
the effect of human genetic variation on
using crispr cas9 reagents
because you and i just sitting here
differ in millions of different
locations within our genome we use these
guide rnas which are 20 base pairs and
we match it to different places in the
genome but what if there's a mutation at
that site and how does that affect a
mutation that's different between you
and me it's the same site but there's a
slight difference in the dna between you
and me exactly let's say in you it's a
perfect match and me there's one that's
actually a mismatch and how does that
affect things in the lab because maybe
it won't be as efficient it won't be
able to bring cas9 to the correct site
and cut there so when when people are
using crispr now in the lab are they
really sequencing the exact cell type
they use sequencing reading out the
genome of that cell before they use
crispr not many do that it would
ultimately be the best way to do it for
sure because the reference genome that
was published in 2001 was kind of just
one person's genome and as we know very
well from sequencing many different
individuals there are a lot of
differences
and so there are some concerns that when
you use these in the lab that you're
intending for a cut to be made in this
one place in the genome but if there
happens to be a mismatch there because
of some variant in the cells that you're
studying maybe it won't cut there at all
and even maybe worse is that maybe it'll
cut somewhere else because maybe now it
can match elsewhere so so you're saying
right now that it's it's kind of early
days with crispr and that there's a lot
of
technical issues that really need to be
ironed out that it's not
anything can be targeted at any time
we're trying to develop the scientific
steps that will take us to that kind of
total genome control it is still
the early days and as much progress has
been done which is actually quite
remarkable given how new this technology
is i mean we're just a few years away
from when it was really started being
used for these applications however
having said that
holds a lot of potential and i think can
get there but there's a lot of issues
and concerns that need to be worked out
i was going to say that a lot of what
inspired me to get into
bioengineering are movies movies like
jurassic park
which both shows the good and the bad
sides of manipulating the nature around
us and so maybe it's a bit of a silly
question but what do you think in our
lifetime will we see something like
jurassic park where humans have actually
engineered uh different different
animals anything is possible i'm not
sure that we will see that in our
lifetimes but i would be very excited to
attend jurassic park if that were the
case having said that i do think that
crispr cast 9 does have a lot of
potential
to
do things that are kind of out of the
box in the past few years we've been
able to tackle ideas that people didn't
even think were possible before that
more than anything crispr has created
a whole open field of opportunities and
so whether or not that leads us to
jurassic park i can't tell you that
answer for sure but i certainly hope
that it does
i think you're right that the
opportunities might be much broader than
just biomedical science it might be
things like using dna as a hard drive
being able to uh use crispr as a
diagnostic instead of just a tool for
for editing can we yeah use cells to
record data over time with with crispr
can we use crispr to track cells in a
developing embryo i think this is one of
the most exciting recent uses of crispr
i've seen that i would have never
predicted a year ago the dominant
paradigm right now is crispr is just for
cutting dna but when you think of it
more as a general platform a pointer to
a location in a genome then that becomes
a very very powerful thing do you think
crispr will be helpful for understanding
human variation beyond what we already
have just by sequencing people's genomes
yes absolutely i think that the real
power of crispr lets us to follow up on
this genetic information that we've been
studying and following for a very long
time now there's been a lot of studies
where you take a group of people with
disease x and people without that
disease and you see if any mutations
seem to be preferentially in the group
with the disease and kind of absent in
the group without the disease people
have observed these differences but what
you're saying is with crispr we can now
test is this causal this factor if we
make this mutation does it cause the
disease does it either create sickle
cell anemia or ameliorate sickle cell
anemia and prevent it do you think we'll
ever be at a place where based on
looking at someone's genome and these
kinds of crispr functional screens we
can predict
what kinds of diseases these people
might get 10 20 years in the future i
think that's certainly a great goal as
of now we tend to focus on variants or
mutations that we know the function what
about mutations we've never seen before
something that comes from let's say uv
radiation and melanoma or something i
think that we will ultimately have the
power to do that and so thinking about
when you start from mutation do you look
at the expression of rna is that change
is it changing things at the protein
level so so this is interesting so you
mentioned that we can analyze genomes
the dna level and then you said the rna
level looking at the expression of genes
and then the proteins the products that
they actually make with proteomics or
mass
spectrometry
but do you think it's kind of like
another level of understanding the
function of the genome or do you view it
as
part of one one of those those levels i
do think it provides a different level
of data the ability to
rapidly and
genome-wide assess and make changes at
the dna level and then look at the
resulting changes of the rna and protein
level i think is something that we
haven't been able to do and is now i
think going to rapidly advance
understanding at a genetic level at the
dna level of a lot of different diseases
so so you and i have done functional
screens we've done these large-scale
crispr screens where we modify many
genes thousands of genes or thousands of
locations in the genome all in kind of a
test system but do you ever see this one
day the idea of these multiplex pooled
crisper screens going into the clinic
that we actually take a clinical cell
line a cell line from a patient
absolutely i think that is kind of one
of the ultimate goals ultimately it
would be very nice to be able to correct
the mutations
for these diseases we've known about for
sometimes hundreds of years and we just
haven't been able to do anything about
there's a lot of kind of ethical issues
surrounding very reasonably using crispr
in the clinic i think there's a lot of
concern about trying to use crispr
technology other genome technologies to
make humans
designed in a specific way whether you
want to change eye color height or
things like that
the kind of irony of that situation is
that the genetics of a lot of the traits
that are you know you can see by just
looking at a person are quite complex
and are not worked out in the same way
so you're saying that the ethical
problem is not really right now a clear
and present issue because for many of
these
perhaps a little bit more superficial
traits that we have we don't really even
know what what genes can control these
these traits though it's probably
a good idea to start thinking a little
bit about engineering somatic cells
versus
germline cells which are passed on to
future generations and i think one nice
thing is that most scientists agree that
for at least for human gene editing that
we need to focus on somatic cells which
really impacts a lot of people with
these diseases and that there's many
many issues around editing the germline
where there you're
doing something that might be inherited
for for many many generations so it's
it's kind of an interesting
misconception that people think that
crispr is just one thing just one enzyme
cas9 i think that's a really great point
and that speaks to just how fast this
technology is developing because it
started with us just knowing about cast
nine but in just one cast nine right s
pyogenes cas9 was kind of the first one
used for gene editing in human cells
exactly and just in the past few years
this this toolbox has now been expanded
well past that for example you can look
into other different species of bacteria
to find cast iron
so cas9 is over many different species
it's over a tremendous amount of
bacteria and so you would reference
strep page nice cas9 well if they you
look into staphylococcus aureus you can
also find cast 9 and that cast line is
just slightly different it can target
different regions of the genome and so
that opens up a whole new set of
possibilities in terms of genome editing
so it increases the targetable space
within the human genome you can target
more regions that you couldn't with that
first first cast line and what i find
actually is a really interesting thing
is that there's this
huge metagenomic diversity of different
crispr systems and most of them are
really just not even well characterized
yet and i think the best example that we
were talking about earlier is this new
rna targeting crispr so instead of
cutting dna it targets rna and i think
this is just one example of a complete
paradigm shift i don't think anyone had
necessarily predicted at the beginning
that this would be one of the things
that just was created and existed in
nature and it just took some time for
people to uncover it i think it's a
great good example of why it's important
actually to fund basic science because
you sometimes when you start down a
certain path you never know where you're
going to end up in the end the more
research that can be done in this area
can really unleash new possibilities
finding new things different versions of
cas9 or other things that function like
cast nine or things completely different
that at this moment i can't even think
of the possibilities
are endless to be a little cliche about
it no literally i think they are endless
for sure
i think it's great for people of all
ages to understand crispr and at least a
little bit about genome engineering
because so much of the world today
revolves around biology also there's
something about self-understanding we
really
want to understand ourselves and what
makes up ourselves and crispr and gene
editing is another way to get at what is
the substance
underlying us