so tell me your version of a technical
definition of blockchain
a technical definition of blockchain is
that it is
a persistent transparent public
append-only ledger
so it is a system that you can add data
to and not change previous data within
it
it does this through a mechanism for
creating consensus
between scattered or distributed parties
that do not need to trust each other but
just need to trust the mechanism by
which their consensus has arrived at
in the case of blockchain
it relies on some form of challenge
such that
no one actor on the network is able to
solve this challenge consistently more
than everyone else on the network so it
randomizes yes yeah it randomizes the
process and in theory ensures that no
one can force the blockchain to accept a
particular entry onto the ledger that
others disagree with one that
relies on a mechanism for a peer-to-peer
network that can maintain
updates to the ledger and then verify
those updates in such a way that it is
impossible to defraud and impossible to
alter after the fact and do you see it
as defining a new discipline of kinds or
where where are we going to see
blockchain emerge in the real world
first i mean just so like as an example
one thing that i think about a lot in
terms of possible blockchain
applications is electricity right the
next generation of distributed smart
grid technology effectively sure and
people are working on that already yeah
yeah exactly and it's this very fruitful
area of research and you can find
yourself looking like 20 years out right
where you have an enormous number like
of electric cars you have all of these
batteries like that's essentially
um a distributed
peak load power grid right like the cars
are getting plugged in and unplugged at
different times if you have a mechanism
that is able to
automatically and autonomously
be distributing power based on batteries
that are scattered throughout the grid
that are being used for other purposes
their owners don't even necessarily need
to be aware you begin to have something
that looks like a much more viable
society that still has a lot of
electricity needs but is able to base
that much more on renewables is able to
make up the difference during peak load
periods or during differences in weather
that is able to have power much closer
to where it's needed rather than having
to be distributed over great distances
like
that's something that would be an
enormously hard problem to solve and
it's not that the blockchain makes it
easy but it makes it possible a lot of
people are seeing blockchain in the news
and maybe seeing a lot of sort of
initial coin offerings this sort of
monetization opportunity around
blockchain and are getting very excited
about it and some of that excitement is
is real and should be you know
encouraged but some of it is also hype
how do you feel about the hype cycle
around blockchain today i'm glad you
mentioned initial coin offerings um
because for me those really exemplify
the sort of the the problem that we're
having at this exact moment they are a
an idea with enormous potential
significance down the road however the
promise of the initial coin offering has
been kind of hijacked into this string
of like basically pump and dump scams or
sort of desperate gold rush schemes the
faster that we can we can shift from
this this fantasy that it is going to
make you rich in a sort of you know
1920s tulip bubble kind of way um
is is that is the sooner that we can get
into people honestly and i mean this
like with all the hope in the world
people being disappointed in blockchains
like oh i didn't get rich it's just
being used now to make it easier to
transact goods and services safely
across borders this isn't exciting at
all and then we'll see that like become
part of the everyday infrastructure of
the world in a way that i think will be
very significant but i think it is now
almost every aspect of it that's
connected with the concept of money is
wildly overhyped um and
it also creates a problem which is
people get a lot of excitement around it
and then they're waiting for
[Music]
the world to change yeah right where
where is this technology why haven't i
seen anything changing yes yes because
we've had a lot of pr a lot of proof of
concept but yeah truthfully this is more
like a science right it will develop it
will take five years it will take 10
years that kind of time is necessary one
of the areas that brought me to supply
chain research is the fact that we're
we're not just going to see blockchain
emerge we're going to see artificial
intelligence continue to evolve we're
gonna see connected devices and this
sort of growing internet of things
machinery that can do a lot more and
have a wallet and transact on their own
and so
i actually think a lot of where
blockchain and other technologies are
headed is this interesting synergy that
will help us elevate the kinds of
institutions we've used in the past and
cobbled together to create that
identifiable
verifiable trust yes and one of the most
interesting ideas to me that came out of
the currency side of the blockchain
project was the notion around like
coloring coins right assign properties
to a particular coin
and in particular to assign those
properties in ways that would allow you
to do things like bring in the graph of
previous transactions you know there's
sort of an obvious application for this
which is something that would look a
little bit like an extreme version of
like a boycott divestment and sanctions
kind of approach right a model where
it's sort of like i will not touch money
my wallet will automatically not touch
money that has been exchanged with the
following as a sort of very extreme way
of cutting those things out but there's
also ways in which i think that could be
applied to to clearing out the entire
logistics process of many kinds of bad
actors but trying to make a supply chain
better in some ways relies a lot on
whose version of better that is and
exactly kind of what gets qualified but
also how that is quantified
within say some kind of like smart
contract system there's multiple ways
that i could see this backfiring and one
is the ways in which that is implemented
for example
leaving certain kinds of bad behavior
untouched or unanalyzed or one that
feels even more dire to me in some ways
is creating an extremely inflexible con
like because human contracts legal
contracts are actually very flexible
like there's a lot of kind of room to
move and renegotiate yeah but we we
already have
real world versions of some of these
nightmare scenarios right where like
your kid has a medical emergency and you
can't unlock your car because you're two
days behind on payments for it and so
the car system will no longer respond to
the app mechanism that you're supposed
to be able to use to drive it barrier
being sort of a rigidity in structures
that maybe don't accommodate real life
scenarios very well as you and i have
been talking one of the things that
keeps coming up is that we tend to hold
novel technologies to an unrealistically
high standard in terms of what they are
supposed to deliver rather than
comparing them to actually existing
systems where we can begin to see the
possibility that even like a slight
incremental improvement would still be
an enormous gain the system we have
today is also broken
right
it's it's hard to compare it to some
perfect future just like we compare
um you know autonomous vehicles to this
very high standard because machines are
doing it should be perfect right there
should be zero car deaths
and when you say well there's hundreds
of thousands millions of you know car
deaths on the road due to human error
today i think we're in a similar place
we're going to see problems with this
technology and we are going to need to
develop
multiple kinds of standards that also
have some flexibility
but it's it's going to also be a
version a system that
allows us to fix some of the things that
are broken today
blockchain may sound complicated but at
its core it's just another tool for
humans and eventually robots and other
kinds of identities to trade at scale
and make that trade more decentralized
and it's part of our future so it's
important that people have these kinds
of conversations and start to learn
about it